use the menu conmmand image - adjust - brightness / contrast on an active image
minimum and maximum sliders control the lower and upper limits of hte display range

reset restores the original brightness / contrast settings.

auto automatically optimizes brightness and contrast based on an analysis of the image's histogram.

each additional click on auto increase the number of saturated pixels and thus the amount of optimization.

click on set to enter minimum and maximum display range values in a dialog box.
check propagate to all other open images to apply these values to all images currently open.

click on apply alters the pixel data of a non-RGB image
Do Not click apply if image quantation is intended on an active image.

you can create an RGB image with adjusted brightness / contrast settings by using the menu command
plugins - utilities - capture image
save the new RGB images as a tiff, jpeg, bmp or png

for multichannle composite images, image - adjust - brightness / contrast can be used to adjust channles 
separately when the channel bar is moved to the appropriate channel.

a multichannel compsite image is considered a stack

to copy the active image, go to image - duplicate, you can rename the new image

a composite image can be converted to a multichannel RGB image by the command image - color - stack to RGB
using the brightness / contrast adjustment on an RGB color image updates brightness display 
for all channles as a group.

use image - adjust - color balance to set brightness and contrast display for individual channles
in an RGB image, use the selection to specify which color will be adjusted.

use plugins - utilities - capture images to create an optimized RGB image display that can be saved for presentation.
to convert an RGB multichannel image to a composite image, go to image - color - make composite.

sometimes an iamge contains a wide range of intensities and it is difficult to find a display range that shows the dimmest 
objects while not saturating the brightest.
this is where non-linear adjustments may be helpful.

the menu command process - enhance contrast increase image contrast by using 
either histogram stretching or histogram equalization.
saturated pixels determines the number of pixels in the image that are allowed to become saturated, 
increasing this value increases contrasts.

pixel values are altered when either normalize or equalize histogram is enabled.

edit - undo reverses the effect of the most recent image editting operation.

process - math - gamma changes how intensities are scaled between the two limits (min and max)
gamma equals 1 is normal, 
more than 1 is medium-intensity objects can be made fainter without dimming the bright objects
less than 1 is faint objects can be made intense without saturating bright objects.

remember to save alteredd image as a new file and do not overwrite the original file.

brightness / contrast setting can also be applied to multidimensional images (z stacks)

for the enhancement contrast options, with stacks, process all slides is displayed, if this option
is enabled, normalization and histogram equalization are applied to all slides in the stack.

if stack histogram is checked, the overall stack histograms (instead of individual slides histograms that allow 
optimal adjustments for each slides alone) is taken into account.
this option may be especially relevent when performing enhancements based on a particular region of interest.

for gamma adjustments on a stack, use the scrollbar to determine the desired gamma value on one slide of the stack, 
and then apply this gama value to the stack.
Note that thewe is no undo.






















