count the number of nuclear foci in 2-channel image

split channels to get the DAPI channel to process and analyze.

change the LUT to grays, this will make the features more visible during processing.

make 2 copies (duplicates) of the image
rename as 1 and 2 (or whatever name you want)

now let us use the gaussian blur filter on each of the duplicate images.
process - filters - gaussian blur

on image 2, use a sigma (radius) of 2,
notice how the image gets blurry.

on image 1, aply a gaussian blur filter with a sigma of 1, 
the image is less blurry than image 2.

the difference of gaussians (DoG) algorithm involves he subtraction of one blurred version of an image from another,
less blurred version of the original.

go to process - image calculator.

choose 1 as image 1 and 2 as image 2, operation: subtract,
check create new window.

the result is an image containning only the information contained within the spatial
frequency betweeen the two blurred images.
the result is a bit dim, so let us have by adjusting brightness / contrast.
decrease the maximum, and the foci seem to be enhanced more now compared to the nuclei.

compare with the original image.
let us check how thresholding works on the original image.
there are a lot of clumps after thresholding, 
we can not count clustered areas as individual features.

let us threshold the DoG image this time.
apply the same thresholding algorithm.
much better, 
of course, you can always try other thresholding algorithms.

now, we can go to analyze - analyze particles, 
set the size o rcircularity range if you want to exclude certain features from the analysis.
check show count masks, which is the label image, you can use this for morphological analysis with morphoLibJ
note that it is not a binary mask.

check the outputs you needs.

the summary shows the total number of foci or puncta found, as well as other overall measurement.
the result table shows the measurement for each particle found.

remember these measurement should have been previously selected under analyze - set measurement
make sure limit to threshold is checked.

on the ROI manager, show all displays on the active image all the ROIs in the list.

note that the measurement should be taken from the original images.
clicking the measure on the ROI manager, generates measurement from the original image.
save your measurement.
saving the ROI list is also an option.

is it possible to count foci on a certain region of the image?
yes, we just need to set measurement to include bounding rectangle ,
even if the ROI is not a rectangle.
then proceed to analye particles.
let us check the label image (count masks)

the difference of gaussian algorithm is also useful for enhancing edges in noisy images 
since it reomved high-frequency spatial detail that can include random noise.
it may be necessary to correct background first before using DoG.
process - subtract background 
